Plum Tart with Fig Jam and Hazelnut Crust
=========================================

Last night, with the cozy rainy weather settling in, my need to cook went into high gear. I made roasted chicken and braised green beans for dinner. As I was waiting for the oven to pre-heat to put in the chicken, I realized that a dessert was in order too. I don’t make desserts often, but like I said, I was in cooking high gear. I noticed the 5 or 6 plums that had been sitting on my counter for the last few days, virtually ignored, and remembered the homemade fig jam in the refrigerator. I went to my recipe collection, knowing I could find a ‘nut crust’ recipe in there, and was successful. The resulting tart was delicious! Needless to say, I had this for dessert AND breakfast the next morning. The best thing was, I did all this while waiting for dinner to cook. It took me MAYBE a half and hour? I am no baker, so I was very proud of myself for producing this. I drizzled plain yogurt over it, but feel free to try with vanilla ice cream as well. Yum!

**Serves:**6-8

 

**Preparation Time:** 30 minutes or less

**For the Crust:**

-   1 cup cornmeal
-   ½ cup pecans or hazelnuts or almonds
-   1 cup oats
-   ¼ cup canola or melted coconut oil
-   ¼ cup maple syrup
-   1 teaspoon vanilla
-   Pinch sea salt

 

**For the Filling:**

-   1/2 pint fig jam
-   About 1 pound firm plums, pits removed, and cut into 1/6ths
-   2 Tablespoons sugar

 

**Instructions:**

Preheat oven to 350 Degrees F.

 

1. In bowl of food processor, combine cornmeal, nuts, and oats. Grind to a fine meal. Place cornmeal mixture in a medium bowl.

 

2. In small bowl, whisk together oil, maple syrup, vanilla, and sea salt.

 

3. Stir wet ingredients into dry and mix until cookie-like dough is formed.

 

4. Press into lightly oiled tart pan. Bake tart 12 minutes or until firm and lightly browned.

 

Mix plums with sugar in a bowl and let sit for 10-15 minutes. Spread fig jam in bottom of cooked tart shell. Arrange plum pieces on top in a pretty pattern. Increase oven to 375 Degree F., and cook for 20-25 minutes, until plums are soft.

 

Serve with plain yogurt or vanilla ice cream!

​
